# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
"""
Created on Tue Mar  4 09:08:31 2025

@author: srivi
"""

Creating a concept for effective communication in an online team. 

We started to develop a concept for online teams on the second day of the workshop. 
Use the foundations we laid there and complete the following task. 

In an increasingly digital working world, many companies rely on remote teams. 
Effective communication within such teams plays a crucial role in the success of 
projects and the satisfaction of team members.  

Your task is to develop a concept that ensures that communication in a remote 
online team functions optimally. 

Steps for completing the task: 
    
Step 1: Identify media skills Think about what media skills are required in your 
team to work efficiently and effectively. What skills are required in dealing 
with different communication media?  

Step 2: Establish communication rules 
Establish clear rules and guidelines for communication within the team. How 
should information be shared? Which media should be used for which purpose 
(e.g. email, video calls, chat, project management tools, time management)?  

Step 2: Establish communication rules Create clear rules and guidelines for 
communication within the team. How should information be shared? Which media 
should be used for which purpose (e.g. email, video calls, chat, project 
                                  management tools, time management)?  

Step 3: Conflict prevention Think about how communication can be designed to 
avoid conflicts as far as possible. What measures could be taken to reduce 
misunderstandings and promote a positive team atmosphere?  

Step 4: Create a code of conduct Formulate the communication and media code of 
conduct, taking into account the identified media skills and communication rules. 
The code should be easy to understand and binding for all team members. 
Your solution should not only address the technical aspects of communication, 
but also the social and organizational factors that support successful remote 
teamwork. Emphasize the importance of an open communication culture and continuous 
improvement. 

Note: Please complete this task in writing and upload it. 




